all right well
i'll i'll hop in and do a quick intro uh
so welcome to the ipva local and offline
special interest group
group of people that periodically get
together and talk about ipfess and
related technologies in the context of
offline and local first
application development we've got
everything from
data oriented problems uh challenges
that we might be able to use these
technologies for
sometimes demonstrations and today we
would like to welcome phishing
uh boris and brooklyn who will be
talking to us about their work in
developing
uh the uh web
native file system and a set of
technologies that allow people to
get onto the decentralized web but using
very familiar
uh centralized technologies metaphors
and tools so
without further ado welcome show us what
you got
awesome thank you uh yeah uh
james and steven uh are also here
uh steven has done a lot of heavy
lifting uh
on this and i think i'll do a demo of an
app as well
um i will go ahead i have some slides so
i will
use those to go through
can anyone give me a thumbs up if they
can see this
perfect um so local first
apps on ipfs with fission
um that's kind of our default state that
we want to aim for
um so first of all uh what is
fission so we talk about it as next
generation app publishing
so right now the stack of technologies
that you have to learn
not just to build an app but then to
host it and deploy it
and scale it uh is kind of a lot
so for us we're thinking of this as
designed for front-end developers
so you don't have to become a full stack
developer devops expert
um the main uh open source sdk that we
create
we call web native uh right now it has
user accounts
file and data storage uh and more that
you can just add to your app so
we lean into ipfs pretty heavily for
that
um in the way that we've created an
account system
data is actually stored with user
accounts so your
your app is published and the app asks
permission of the user and each user
uh has their own file system um where
data is written into
and it's a little bit like an open
source icloud
so web native apps actually run
client-side including on mobile
and can work offline uh i say can
because you're still gonna have to do
work to set it up that way and work with
local storage and
and so on um the publishing platform
that does hosting
um has a command line interface
web-based app creation
um dns ssl all
all the good stuff that's expected today
uh and underneath we publish everything
to
ipfs and automate dns link um
and uh i'll go into that in a little
more detail
uh feel free to stop me and ask
questions along the way as well
uh so a recent slide from uh
uh brook so we really think that you can
build entire apps at the edge
um and they can be offline first and
local
um which means not having to learn
servers datastore devops pieces
so instead we put those things into the
front and into the client side
um so just in javascript anything that
compile down to javascript
can work with our sdk so obviously
interesting things in the direction of
stuff like web assembly as well
um that's the one with the slight
transition
the way that we think about it is that
we set ourselves
the goal that this stuff should work in
any browser including mobile without
plugins
so we lean pretty heavily into
modern browser apis specifically
we target things that work on all major
browsers including mobile
um and that's kind of our line in the
sand uh if something only works
on one browser doesn't really help us so
that's what we're targeting
the web crypto api is a key piece where
we in fact link
your identity uh with a private key held
by your browser
web workers service workers indexeddb
pwa and web app manifests so
for that we really think that every app
on fission
um powered by web native should
it's an app in in fact should use some
of this modern tech
uh should be configured as a pwa should
be added to a home screen uh
should be be able to have its own
separate icon uh if you're if you're
on uh on desktop um
and you should set it up so that the the
parts of your app that makes sense
uh do in fact work offline
um this is the
rather tall stack that we're built on
um so we've designed
what we've put together with a few
concepts in mind one of it is things
that
need to be portable they're not just
locked into fission
they can be used by anyone um and that
means starting with
things like content addressing that we
get
from ipfs um on the identity side
um we've built our account system um on
top of dids
so private keys in the system represent
your account
um brooke has developed a protocol
called ucan
that lets you do decentralized
authentication including
offline authentication um
as sort of a decentralized version of
oauth
if you take the servers out and you make
accounts owned by users
then you have to change how this stuff
works
um we also put a bunch of stuff in dns
um ipns is not
something that's reliable enough today
for a variety of reasons
um and uh dns
ends up becoming a cache and we use dns
link uh
obviously to also work with uh the rest
of the web by running ipfs gateways
so people can visit a fission app um
and it they will visit it over https um
and then web native loads js ipfs
uh and from then on the app uh actually
communicates directly and natively over
ipfs
um the web native file system which uh
dietrich mentioned off the top that's
another uh something that uh
brook has architected and uh developed
uh we're basically uh developing an
encrypted file system
uh it secures metadata is performant
um and designed to to kind of uh
hold all the users data and hold
permissions for which apps can read it
right into it
so any any browser device that you link
in you can then access your file system
um and it's just there and it continues
to be end
encrypted so fission helps
sync and store this data natively over
ipfs um but it's
the encrypted portions are encrypted um
we don't have the key
um and uh of course because
all of these things uh are represented
by ipfs hashes
uh the user can of course backup
or store or pin or locally cache
um the file system as well um the
root of the file system we keep it
updated um
dns link uh up to date uh so that's what
we use
right now when you're connecting from
different devices to see what the
what the current snapshot of the route
is
not all of this stuff is uh built so
plans to add more database features um
more things for um
real time and uh um
collaboration which i'll have another
slide to talk about a little bit that's
more like
future directions
um for this group i don't think i've
actually
shown this diagram uh publicly yet i
just created it the other day
um so what fission actually runs
is relatively slim
so we run an ipfs storage server
um and we run um
we run things on amazon we've
released some open source around
spinning up
ipfs nodes distributed around the world
using terraform
we use the s3 plugin so we make sure
things are are backed up and available
for everyone
and we then with web apps using web
native
they connect natively over secure
websockets
to be able to read and write over there
so they they connect to
the fission bootstrap servers uh so
there's a path to the rest of the ipfs
network from
from there uh then our web api server is
kind of the main thing and that's where
we automate dns
uh we store some unique usernames for
accounts
um and then we have the efficient cli
that developers use day-to-day to doing
development to do publishing
to register new accounts and to register
new apps
um and that web app in the picture
is any arbitrary app that people publish
that includes the web native uh sdk
so it's uh talking uh
over web sockets with js ipfs um
it's being served up by the gateway that
we run
when people first visit it um and we
have
i don't know what the latest is over
over 1200 apps deployed on uh
the main fission service um right now
um and yeah just talking about we use
haskell and elm
um as uh as our main uh internal
languages we've got
um examples in um
a number of different front-end
frameworks like react and svelt
um brian on our team actually put
together a web assembly example
we're pretty excited about web assembly
for the future
um and then we've got integrations to a
bunch of different uh
third-party systems as well uh
specifically the
publish action on github so i personally
run my blog
on uh jekyll a static site generator
um and uh so i have a couple of
different ways where
whenever i make edits to the github repo
where my jekyll site
is it builds the site and then it auto
publishes it to vision
which underneath updates the dns link
so everybody just visits over http s
through the gateway but in fact my
my site is all up on ipfs
as well i'll pause there for a second
does anyone have any questions
uh i have a very quick question you
mentioned um
using dns not only for dns link
but also for cash um
not a cache per se but basically saying
um
we're essentially publicly putting
various things in dns
so each user has their own file system
in
the web data file system and so we need
to keep
track of the route so we only keep track
of root sids
um and so the root sid is uh at a
well-known location
in dns so every user account has a
dns subdomain and dns link entry
and every app has a subdomain and a dns
link entry
um so you could do various things i've
been thinking about how
we could build something for users where
they could
pin uh apps and their own file system
and it would be simple to just look that
up in dns
and make sure that you've got the latest
hash that you're that you're pinning
um with the nice properties that of
course we get all of the files and
blocks underneath
cool you said 1200 apps
applications built so far yeah lots of
those are going to be
hello worlds and other stuff like that
we're pretty we're pretty happy with
uh uh with the number of folks yeah i'm
curious if
if there are any patterns like uh
particular applications that you thought
like were good fits or that developers
gave you back saying that it was good
fit
yeah um so uh there's even actually apps
that
aren't published on vision so you can
use the web native sdk
and put your static site anywhere
um so that doesn't even count all of
them the main thing that people have
said
is that oh wow it was 80 lines of code
to add a user account system and
persistence and file storage and data
storage
that was really smooth that was really
easy um
so we're gonna get a lot of people who
ideally are
in the front end and instead of having
to pick
like step one being learning how to
become a full stack developer what we're
seeing is like oh
it in fact was easy to add these
interactive full app
abilities to it that's the consistency
and i'd say the other side is that
people are very interested
in user-owned data
so rosanno is someone who had been
working with remote storage
um which is an ietf
standard um that uses oauth and uh he
went back and added fission support to
all of his apps as well
so people can log in with either remote
storage or with a vision account
and in both cases the data remains owned
by the by the user
um encryption uh of user data
is the other common theme that people
are very interested in so we've had some
early discussions with folks in things
like
healthcare um brooke and i had an
interesting call with someone who was
working on
um some women's health issues uh
around menopause and uh um you know
that's the kind of thing that you really
want user owned and encrypted
and not as a developer have to make sure
that you protect
and uh just to jump in really quick one
of the really nice things
since you have uh antenna encryption
encryption at rest
is your data can be stored literally
anywhere uh and replicated and it's
fine right assuming that's uh their
you know the encryption works right so
sometimes people have concerns about
like well you know when will people
break
aes 256. it's like well currently the us
government's using that for you know
really you know intense stuff so
probably not for a while
but um
suddenly the location independence of
content addressing really just
um you can just use it for so many more
things so
and there's a special interest group
only for that so maybe
maybe wrong yeah brooke was on the ipfs
ipld security call
so that was great um
fission drive uh so this is our first
party app that we built
um as a default uh
browser that users can actually inspect
and look at their entire file system
because each app actually stores data
in the user file system the user can in
fact browse to that data look at it
inspect it
and so on so think of this as maybe your
library folder or your documents folder
in uh in your operating system where
apps put stuff
increasingly desktop and mobile
advertise mobile operating systems ask
for permissions for things
and that's the same pattern that fission
is following so i've shown here a
screenshot
of you actually have to give drive
itself
access so we can't cheat uh because it's
all cryptography
um where fission can't say like oh well
let's give fission drive
special permission uh we can't do that
it's up to the user
um so i've showed this um i can show it
in as a demo as well
uh it does work offline uh stephen who's
the
author the primary lead author on the on
this app
and a lot of the web native api is on
the call
um so it mix and matches with
local storage and indexeddb to
store things and then sync again when
it's online
um work in progress uh
always hard to do across browser and
mobile and and all that good stuff
and our good friend ios is always a bit
cranky about various things
but uh that's our intent is is that we
put all this stuff together in a way
that
uh developers don't have to figure this
out from scratch it should be all part
of the sdk
um and uh and take care of of syncing
when you're on or offline
um um and just put that all together for
you
uh shall i do a quick uh demo of drive
[Music]
yeah let's see why not yeah yeah okay
i can't go offline because then my my
zoom would drop
i can't prove it to you ah there's the
rub
yeah i've been in this position before
[Laughter]
[Music]
so i'll just show this that i have up
here already
um this is my great uh it'll be very
snappy because
uh everything's cached now and and so on
uh
i can click through to these various
things uh the apps folder
i've linked it to an app called
tiddlywiki
and it's got a little index file in here
all of this stuff the default view is
that we users should be
secure in knowing that their stuff is
private by default so you specifically
have to go
into the public folder and put things in
the public folder
so i can browse in the screenshots these
are literally the screenshots from my
presentation
that i am storing in here this is a
screenshot of foxy
um our marketing lead uh courtney's dog
that i
captured yesterday for the first time um
here's the other classic thing capturing
an error that i then have to add as part
of a
a bug report um
we do have a basic um editor text editor
in here as well
uh so this is loading up this is an html
file where you know we're hiding the
um the file extensions here to make it
look a little prettier
and we have previewers for different
things so you can see here that this is
the source
um i can right click and i can get a
link to file i can copy the sid as well
but i'll go ahead and link to file
um and then i'll open a new tab and i'll
paste it in
um and it's red um
okay cool so i'm gonna go in here
and say not red no red not
red and green
and i will hit save
uh and close uh
and i will right click again so
underneath
it should give me a link to a new file
that i will paste in
and this is not red so i've just done a
live edit it's pushed it to ipfs
i get the link to it uh obviously the
other file
still exists and it's still red because
we've got
this unique hash in the middle um and i
can also get the direct sid
um
let's see if it's made it over here and
it's on the
main ipfs gateway as well obviously
right super simple small file
um let's go for something a little
bigger
uh i do already have this open in a tab
let's copy the sieve this time actually
this might be in ipfs as well um
and so this is the slides from today's
presentations are uploaded
uh you can see it's loading to the main
ipfs gateway
as well so all of this stuff is
using regular ipfs but in a way that is
very browsable
on very user friendly i'll give you one
more example because i've already done
permissions on this
so i'll go to the quotes app
and this is a very simple app it's all
private to the user i'll sign in
what it's going to do is it's going to
say
you know can i as the quotes app right
to an application folder
um and if you want to use a vision app
you have to give access to at least the
application folder
because it needs a place to put its
files because it doesn't have its own
dedicated storage today
so i say yes it shows what i'm logged in
as here
i'll redirect me back to the app it's
empty
i'll do one of
brooks quotes uh
because math i'll do another quote
that is uh email is where knowledge
oops goes to die
that was said by bill french way back in
the day
um so just a little like personal quotes
thing um
and then what i can do uh is i can go
back up here
uh and i may need to do a hard refresh
we don't have like live updating or
anything that's pushing live changes
right now
so um that'll that'll be coming yeah so
this is not not live in here right now
if i hit a hard refresh i'll go ahead
and do that now
you can see that this other app folder
is now available
in quotes uh and i've got this just
little
json file and that's where the app keeps
data
bill french brooklyn zlanka vision works
today for building
apps like this uh you don't need
anything more complicated because you're
not running a giant multi-tenant
database
uh you're just running it on a per user
basis
so front-end developers can essentially
if you're doing if you're using react or
vue or svelt
very often they will mock their data uh
for for uh writing locally with fission
you can essentially
ship your mocks right uh and you built a
full app with user accounts
where the storage is stored for the user
uh and obviously this opens up
the ability to share data between apps
as well
which is something else that we're
pretty excited about
[Music]
before i click out of out of uh fission
drive
uh any other questions about fission
uh not about about vision drive um like
related kind of thing do you run your
own gateway or
uh we do yes um the main reason we run
our own gateway
is because we have to run
secure websockets so that js ipfs can
connect to it
um we've had a lot of discussions on
on what's next i actually have a slide
around that so i'll actually go back to
that
[Music]
so just talking through how the cli
works um i think this is very
interesting i believe that we are the
only cli tool
um that is natively used as ipfs
and this is what i mean by that uh so
uh we are actually downloading and
installing our own ipfs node so our
target market is not necessarily people
that are
deep into the decentralized web but our
target market is everyone
so a front-end developer should be able
to get all of these features without
even having to know that ipfs is
involved it's just
they inherit all of the awesome
capabilities that
uh that we get for building on top of it
um
so you run fusion setup um we
have support for linux and mac os right
now we're recommending
that windows users use wsl2
to do that uh we'll circle back around
for any of windows support at some point
um vision app register you can create a
new app with subdomain
um we'll uh will generate a huge
subdomain name for you
and then vision app publish um this
actually publishes the app
natively over apfs so most other systems
that we've seen
uh will actually publish over an http
call
and then turn it into ipfs on the server
side um so what we actually do
is we run a local node we add to ipfs
locally
and then we contact the fission server
to register the hash and update dns link
and the fission server reaches back to
the uh developer's local device
uh and just fetches um over over ipfs
um this ends up being pretty snappy and
fast
obviously for uh um you know and faster
in fact than things like
um doing a git push um and uh so it's
uh you know it's it's working very well
it's in production
lots of people using it and we're pretty
happy with it there's a few other flags
so you can run
we turn off the node right now
when uh when the publish succeeds uh you
can also give it a watch flag and as you
do edits
it'll just live update your your files
and the dns link
root in the background um so that's a
pretty neat thing i could have done that
and just refreshed a page and showed you
that as i was making edits it was it was
live and available everywhere at a dns
address
we do that because uh
laptops um
[Music]
power usage bandwidth usage and a bunch
of other things like that
um we may do some options to do a long
running version of that but that's
really what the next
slide is about so
you've got everything running locally
you've got a hash published
it's actually available in your local
node so if you're running fission watch
uh
theoretically you should be able to just
run that directly locally offline
in your in your browser that's but
that's the published version it's the
same as the
there's no difference um we bootstrapped
to the vision servers
um and uh
i'm sorry i'm i'm i may pronounce your
name wrong uh marcin is that how you
pronounce your first name
yes you pronounce it lido okay
i i like to ask before people using the
link name light all it is so
uh lidl has uh has this issue already
we've looked at some of these things
um steven has written this up um i'll
share the link afterwards as well
in our forum of a couple of different
ideas of how to make this work
um and you know we
we would love this to work more reliably
um
it's ridiculous that we can run a node
locally but then can't
really connect to it
um um and so here's a couple of
different ideas of
of of stuff that we might need to do um
and enable by default is always the huge
thing right if we don't get to enable by
default
in ipfs in various things um
then very few people will discover it
right
comments libel or steven
i'd say listening
on websockets on localhost
it's doable because you don't need a
tls cert a localhost's
secure context and we should be able to
enable that by default
in ipvs desktop and brave
even before go itfs decides to do that
in go ipfs doing that by default
may make less sense because
it's usually run on the like server in
on the server context
uh but there are like some we have some
ideas how to like automate
uh the tls search
we have uh i don't want to go into that
dramatic hall but
uh we have this mechanism called autonot
where node is able to tell is it like
diable
from the public uh network and
then and only then we could do some
automation but that's like very early
stages
of like design so i don't want to spoil
it uh
but we are looking at that i'd say it
will land in desktop and brave produce
before
that so that's a good move great yeah
um we'd love to uh
you know help test that and we could do
various things with the cli published
messages
to you know right now we basically tell
people just to go to the internet which
then
fetches it off our servers even though
it's literally already sitting on their
machine
right
[Laughter]
well it should kind of both
like be fast locally but then
exactly yeah yeah yeah why not both
yeah yeah exactly
um
so this is a little like all over the
place um this is probably much
not probably this is much more brook's
domain uh and uh
and james and steven's domain um
so we you can we have well-known
usernames
and from well-known usernames you can
read from each other's public folder
locations today
um so that's a method to kind of do
stuff that's that's somewhat
collaborative
um we do plan on having
you know a shared permission and group
structure
so permissions and encryption are key
and uh we're gonna do stuff with that to
to to
uh give that capability to uh to
developers building apps
um definitely as you saw i had to hard
refresh
um i think one of the biggest challenges
is in fact that like
caching local storage do i have the
newest version of this app
even uh never mind the data inside of it
so we've already thought about things
like oh
we should probably do a server-side
check and if there's a newer app
then we give one of those little banners
that says do you want to reload and you
see that in
i use an email app called missive you
see it in rom research
that have this like hey you've got a new
version you should refresh
um and then the other thing is
[Music]
something like pub sub we use it for
device linking today
matrix is a really interesting protocol
um
and brooke do you want to maybe talk
about how you're thinking about
either that or some of the collaborative
stuff
yeah sure uh so we used to use ipfs pub
sub but it was not super reliable it
looked like
actually browser to browser was pretty
much fine uh we have to run our own
webrtc
webrtc star um server but aside from
that which
would be nice if i know that down the
road there's plans to make this just
automatically connect but
um it didn't bridge well between the
browser
and go ipfs if we wanted to to link
stuff
through the cli uh so we threw that out
and just wrote a simple uh websocket
relay
um matrix super interesting um
uh and uh because over time we're going
to want to use this for more things than
just
you know sending some you know
lightweight
credential information right having
real-time editing real-time
collaboration all of that
um uh useful and then obviously people
want chats
as well so matrix is a nice fit for all
of these things
um today we boot up
bootstrap up a
[Music]
secure session on top of the web sockets
we also used to do this on top of uh pub
sub
where we do what looks it's not exactly
the same but similar to like a tls
handshake
uh do key exchange with a session key
and then can
securely pass information back and forth
um yeah so that that's the real-time
stuff there's also
um because
boris mentioned you know getting the
latest update on an app pushing the
top sid of file assistant apps etc
uh over pub sub so that each peer is now
broadcasting hey
i did an update or hey i published this
and the htcp gateway
accepted it here's the signature you
should all synchronize with this version
now
um something that we're uh calling the
and from you know several slides ago
it's in that stack um
an ephemeral store so that we can do
really quick updates
um and then um
and things like you know per character
changes um
and then persist it at some you know
known interval or when things are in a
good state
or or whatever so that that's more um
uh it's a little bit more of a flexible
um
uh store rather than our actual
persistent file system
um which also has some extra stuff in
there too it's uh
non-destructive and whatnot so we have
to keep a bunch of links for each change
so we want this to be uh to be larger
um collaborative editing um yeah we
looked at
auto merge yjs a bunch of ct
based systems um they pretty much work
uh especially for um real-time
collaboration which is great but for
longer documents and longer term uh data
they
they fit less well or for large data
sets
they they fit lost well um
so i have been thinking about
uh and and actually uh the the main guy
um
behind auto merge has also um done a
little bit of work in this direction too
different uh model um
zero dt for collaborative editing and
then large scale
aggregation of data so pushing over
essentially gossip sub
uh gossip pub sorry um uh
information in a series that's just
purely set based and based on data log
um and then uh we can get all kinds of
nice properties like much much much
better performance
uh only syncing um subsets of data being
able to put
data together pull it back apart it's
isn't fall tolerant like there's a bunch
of stuff
like that that falls out of this um and
doesn't matter if it's going through the
internet
or on a local device sharing between
multiple apps
um we don't make uh the actual
underlying technology doesn't make a
distinction between
different apps which all have their own
keys and their own identity
and a human being who has their own sort
of top level key
so it's the same
[Music]
system to collaborate between separate
apps with the same user logged in
with some subset of rights as it is to
collaborate between
people um so having that
be able to be uh this substrate for uh
real time
and uh data set sharing and doing
uh databases where parts of the data are
available to one
um uh one participant but not another
right and having everything still work
um
uh which is also related to this this
database
uh idea um project cambria
data schema merging uh we have some
thoughts on uh
doing shared schemas between
applications as well
and how to translate between them since
everything is data log based in the
current model we still have to do a
little bit more
uh r d uh around this um
it's fundamentally schema-less so
there's cambria lets you take
uh schema and schema b and translate
between the two and it's
potentially lossy like you you may lose
information
or have some defaults put in if you're
going one direction or another
um the schema-less layer there's this
extra step of you've got to
take from the this somebody recently
described it as this just loose soup and
bring it up into some structured data
and so typically we should be able to
skip the translation from schema to
schema
um but we may still need to have some
default fields and whatnot so it ends up
looking a lot like
cambria or if an application expects
expects things in a certain
format and needs to deliver it to say
a traditional you know rest based api
you can then translate that
and send it across so specifically for
uh offline apps um this is uh
the the simplified version that my tiny
brain understands about uh project
cambria
is and we have a video presentation
about that that uh that i can throw in
the links as well
um is basically that a version one app
can collaborate with a version 1000 app
uh so not just drift over the data but
you have drift over the app
itself um and project cambria helps
solve some of these things
again some of this is well known for
building things like desktop apps or
mobile apps that kind of do this
um so we're pretty excited about having
this uh as well
um we ended up going this direction of
building
this database because we had done the
initial work of
of designing the web data file system
that
handled private data and encryption
we then looked at other things like
orbit db
um and it doesn't really have the
concept of
uh encryption or private data um
and so we have been finding it easier to
build on top of
our system that has already solved
privacy and permissions um because
that's the key point not the data store
layer
um there's other folks that are adopting
some of our stuff so the query team
um has looked at and implemented brooks
you can
authentication design in in in go um
and i know carson at textile is uh is
tinkering around with it as well
um because you need something that looks
like it
in to solve a lot of these problems uh
open specs we have a white paper and a
bunch of other stuff where we've
documented it
uh we're happy to work at the r d layer
at the protocol layer
as well as up at the app layer i'm happy
to work with people on any of this stuff
um uh final thing that i kind of wanted
to say and i think this is my lab i
think this is my last side
um the way that we think about fission
all our stuff is open source
um so we run uh a hosted service
uh so that's that's the fission part of
the fission platform
uh you know you currently get subdomains
in the in the namespace of fission.app
users get fission.name um i've been
using this term constellation provider
um and we're focused on on developers
and users being able to just sign up
and stuff works um and we're getting
good adoption and we
uh are looking to have more of that um
but
uh you from that diagram that i showed
earlier like
you know you need to know some devops
you need to you do need to be a full
stack developer and know a little devops
to run this stuff at scale um but you
can run the vision server yourself we're
having some early discussions
um with uh companies and other
organizations
that are interested in further
customizing what vision does having
their own app names
because we've got this user identity and
publishing and file system in a box
that makes for a really really strong
set of capabilities
already um and what we want to do there
is we want to federate
um so web finger is
probably the obvious thing there uh
rosano who i mentioned earlier
he and i did a little experiments
because he's coming from the remote
storage
uh world um and uh that's where we've
gotten to
so far is you'll enter in something that
looks like an email address
so this is a common pattern across
things like matrix or mastodon or other
systems that
matrix doesn't use webfinger mastodon
does but we think that's a pretty strong
common pattern
across things um and then
you know that's what we envision is we
can have lots of this stuff
uh running um and
federate between all of these things um
and then you have more and more folks
online
uh running things that are in this
client-side app mode
and more ipfs with strong links between
them it doesn't matter if an app
uh is published on fission server 2 or
vision server one
um it should all just work um and be
cached and pinned transparently
and that's it for me
other questions
that's great it's uh it's very useful
stuff
um i think
uh there are so many applications
actually that
how many did you mention there are uh
just over 1200 right now
okay okay great yeah
um yeah we need to and it's time to to
go through all of that stuff
but yeah there's a lot here if you
haven't seen it before
um yeah we've been we've been working on
this for a while
um we essentially with the github
actions we essentially have parody
with um netlify at this point at the
publishing
layer um you know we can handle custom
domains
uh various other things like that the
new upcoming thing that i'm super
excited about
is um non-developers being able to clone
apps
basically we can do this because of the
properties of
ipfs where uh if you come to a page that
is a fission-powered app
and you're like i'd like a copy of this
uh you can clone the app
we'll create a new sub domain for you
and there you go and we think that's a
very interesting pattern
um for um essentially non-developer
users
designers etc to be able to get in and
and work with stuff and we'll
we'll have some uh demos around that
soon
very interesting i had a quick question
about
um platform portability so
efficient services go down today uh my
application does it still run what do i
have to do uh
all my data might be there do i have to
manually set up some things
like sync application resources and
assets uh to my own
repo or data store how does that look
like for i'm a business who's
betting on vision as a hosting platform
yeah uh great question so um
the way we think about it right now i
mean i think that's the that's the the
next step
uh the the tricky point is dns
[Laughter]
um which is the actual issue here right
um
so uh you know we we we map
uh we're just running cnames for all of
these things which which map to one ipfs
gateway
uh i run my personal site
bmanconsulting.com um
using the cloudflare gateway where
um the current version of that of that
hash
update will remain up and will remain
available um uh right so cloudflare
handles
that layer um so the critical point
becomes the gateway
right now and the http uh uh
link to that on your other question
about data availability
um what i would like to do when we have
some
notes on this is like what i said before
because
we'd like to give early adopter users
perhaps businesses as well the ability
to write a really simple script
that just looks at the newest hash
in dns link and
pin it to a raspberry pi i'm looking
over here because i just i just have my
my my raspberry pi set up now uh or
something like that or running it
locally on your machine again we're
talking about local offline
by default it should just be run and
keep updated and then the question
becomes
one of trust and where do you look for
like truth of the like newest version
and stuff like that
brooke briefly mentioned things like uh
signing updates
we've got this proof chain um because
everybody's using a private key
with the server um so you
you we you know you could even verify on
your own that in fact it was a certain
identity that
did those things um so yeah that's
that's kind of
what it looks like right now uh dietrich
is uh
the nice thing is that this is fission
makes this possible
you can't really do this at with ipfs
um and you know is it cheating to shove
stuff
into dns text entries
it's it's the most decentralized thing
that we could come up with that we don't
actually have to run ourselves
essentially the distributed key value
store come on exactly exactly
um yeah so more of the more of the thing
that ends up becoming like
yeah we've reduced it as much as we can
to these sorts of things you notice i
don't really mention pinning a lot
because i don't really
believe in it i don't think it's
something that should be exposed to
users
what do users want my stuff available
and backed up that actually might be
worth
uh mentioning really briefly because you
know a lot of printing services spend
time uh managing pin sets for users
which we don't do everybody's all of
your stuff
is in one dag and then you update that
and the old one has a link back to the
old one and a bunch of links in between
to the new one
right so it's only just that one top
hash and we can just take that one
in dns and if you want to replicate it
you just grab that one and say give me
everything from it
because we have a permission system
which isn't sitting in somebody's
database
as an api call that isn't under anyone's
control
uh right so um again we're leaning into
the native properties of ipfs
um to to really like
let's use the stuff that's built there
and things like versioning is built in
developers can access versions um
we actually have some issues where we
can't use the native way of calculating
file system sizes because essentially we
have recursive loops
where every time you add a new version
the entire file system
uh it traverses the whole thing and it's
like why do you have eight terabytes in
here
so or
rather every time you add a link because
it's obviously you can't have loops
right
every time you add a link it's
calculating
all of the history again uh into the
size of the dag because the algorithm is
just very simple it's a
just tree you know aggregation
applied to a dag so if you have multiple
routes the same file
you'll get that same file counted
multiple times
we've looked at this a little bit and
the best way we can
figure it out is uh
[Music]
we're going to have to disassemble the
dag
into a tree uh so instead of having you
know human readable file paths
just break it up by sid and then
calculate that
which is a bit of a pain
but overall you know every release
of go away pfs is more stable
um and has more features and and that's
been really well like very often
sometimes we've had issues where we're
like okay we're just gonna move to
0.6 you know there were very 0.4 point
x days where we're like have we made the
right decision
um so you know thank you to the protocol
lab teams and so on for
for keep doing that i think the rest of
it ends up just being
okay what does it mean to run a
constellation provider
we recently used ipfs cluster
and then ripped it all out and
essentially manage it ourselves we still
run
ipfs clusters as in we run multiple
instances
and they're in europe and they're in the
us and and so on but we don't
uh cluster is all about pin sets and it
just we're like
we can just tell it new sids
um so that's a report and i know um
brooke recently had a discussion with
some other folks and i think that's a
discussion i had for
other people who are um helping to keep
ipfs stuff online
um we probably need a operators working
group
to talk about that side of thing
are you using pub sub or something like
that or is totally out of band of ipfs
all together for that
coordination between nodes so
we uh
we it's like there there isn't really a
between nodes it's our web server
makes uh async requests to every node in
the cluster
and we wait for the first one to finish
so we get streaming updates
um with timeouts and something you know
stuff like that but uh we wait for the
first one to finish
report back to the user and then let the
rest of them keep going
uh which i realized is a much simpler
case than
we're going to coordinate with crts or
after you know one of these other things
but it's been like immediately reliable
it took maybe five hours to write so
which in part is leaning into the native
protocol
in it in a very nice way right like
that's the thing like we get all this
dedupe and all this other stuff like
that so
um you know there's there's there's this
stuff
like app cloning that we're gonna put
people like how are you pulling that off
we're like
that it's it's actually mainly the
protocol and we gave it a name and put
stuff on top of it and
give you a new subdomain which isn't
particularly hard but is
novel
yeah that is one of the visceral
mind-blowing parts of people's beaker
experience
is they're like hey i just cloned a
website and now it put my name on it i
like the
design or the features in that one one
click
now i have my own copy that i can run
and modify and change is key
and theme and we need to do this
in a way that doesn't need a special
browser right that's that's our line in
this end no extensions no special
browsers
um you know if there are browser vendors
like brave or others who do interesting
things
um great um that just should make the
experience better
yeah uh in some ways we're endeavoring
to make ipfs boring
[Music]
lionel is like yes
[Laughter]
yeah yeah exactly um
this is great like thank you for
inviting us um i think
you know like just let us know how else
we can help with this
um i think there's probably pieces here
at the app layer
i'd say one thing that i didn't flag um
is as another item to kind of work on
is a lot of apps that work
offline pwas end up being created as
single page apps
depending on the framework
they will end up using
[Music]
routing that is not compatible with ipfs
um so we so far
run a plain jane ipfs gateway
uh in part for our commitment to
portability
but uh increasingly it looks like we
really
should be running a proxy um i know lots
of other people run
engine x reverse proxies already in
front of this um
so there's kind of two paths it's just
more like
a common understanding that it just like
you can drop an ipfs 404 file somewhere
is this something that we talk to go
ipfs do we just
have a common pattern for the way you do
proxies
where you look for a config file and if
it you know we're like
to actually make ipfs work for hosting
you're gonna have to give some hints to
the
server uh in some ways um
and that would be a huge quality of life
experience um
for um spa developers where
they could just drop in a little file
that says please turn on clean routing
um also has the impacts for seo
huge impacts on seo um
uh for using hash routing uh because it
doesn't show up in various places
and other than that what i'm supposed to
i'm supposed to remember
177 what's your what 177 i'll get light
i'll get t-shirts made when we when we
ship
yeah uh i just linked on the chat but
it's zoom so quick
quickly click that so it does not
disappear when this meeting ends uh
regarding them there's this idea that we
should have
support for some sort of like a manifest
which could
uh help website the developers uh
tweak the behavior when you expose
unixfs directory
through the gateway and that's most
likely happening this year because it's
like long time
due and there are there's like a long
list of things like
supporting old links for the uh search
uh
optimization uh customizing content
types for various
things like that customizing security
related http headers
uh please drop a comment if you have
like
something that's not mentioned there it
will be very useful because we will
uh block some time this year to create a
proposal
uh i'll make sure to include you in the
loop but if you have like
anything not already written down please
drop it
there uh because that's like something
we really need to do
yeah yeah and i i agree uh specifically
for
like the routine comment uh most of
problems disappear if you use subdomain
gateways i mean like
most of problems disappear when you like
have like
the content root becomes the root of the
path of the url
um and i'm afraid there's no better way
that works in
all browsers and we will be moving
relative addressing yeah yeah totally as
soon as you get that ipfs in
there you're like great you just broke
everything
yeah yeah so the idea is uh that we will
be slowly during this year
uh putting some pressure soft and hard
pressure
for people to migrate away from paths
which start with ipfs to sub domains
mainly we will be disabling things like
cookies or some like more advanced
apis on those paths and that way people
who
really want to run websites will be kind
of like
slowly transitioning to secure
uh subdomains or just subdomain i'm not
saying that those sub domains with cids
but just like you said you are giving
the pet name
subdomain uh for user and also it's
great for
uh like kind of like an entry drag for
uh people to
uh take like uh
this like idea of self identity they may
experiment with your own
names uh fusion.app but then if they
have their own domain just like did you
ask about what happens if your service
goes away
or someone wants to run their own they
just like flip
the dns link on their own domain name
and they are
self-hosting actually the data will
migrate
itself to their own node so i i'm very
supportive
towards that uh please drop comment
about the manifest
because i personally want to see this
sooner than later i had an interesting
discussion with someone where
i'd love to i feel like
i'm not sure what the play is for ipfs
uh
at the protocol later exactly but uh i
think we should be pushing
pwas i see a lot of people talking about
like electron apps or like other things
like that and i understand why you might
want to do that for control and node
but i also see those same people mainly
being
developers who sit at desktops all the
time
um and i continue to be really really
focused on
on this um so one of the things that
fission would like to do is
is help people get their pwas published
to
the android play store um and the
windows store
um and as part of that so manifest made
me think about it we're
essentially we're gonna have apps on
fission or we have already
um and we're just basically gonna we're
not gonna come up with a new format
we're going to ask people to fill out
their manifest file and you get an icon
and you get a description and so on so
thinking about any extending essentially
vendor
extensions to that manifest file maybe
something
um to be done one
uh and two i think like i said like if
we can work together
on templates
starter repos etc that like
you know most front hand stuff should
just work with with ipfs out of the box
right but
hey let's make sure it works offline
let's make sure it's a pwa
um and i think that there's huge areas
of collaboration there
hello just one quick comment the best
thing about
phishing is that i i can have any app
i can see all my data it doesn't matter
where it is host it doesn't matter where
it is
all your data is really accessible
across any apps i mean that that is just
really significant
that without any any special effort
so i think that that that really is
amazing okay
thanks jerry uh jerry's an early adopter
has been doing a ton
of really really interesting stuff by by
leaning into the the fission
capabilities
great stuff yeah this has been great
we're over
but it sounds like there's a lot of
threads we may want to
pick up here and keep chatting about but
i know we have here
contact information for us so if any of
this team wants to
chat more about specific proposals i
think we can do that
i dropped a link in the chat to the
issue where we have the announcements
for this meeting so if anybody wants to
follow to see what we
have for next month we're hoping to get
back on our monthly cadence
dietrich anything else to wrap up
can you share an address for the slides
i will i will uh okay i will i will put
i'll put a link
in the um uh
i will send an asid is what i will send
address cover of all
amazing thanks everyone thank you all
everyone bye